# Keys

_(c) AMWA 2019, CC Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)_

## Authorization Server Public Key

The Authorization Server MUST provide all public keys used for signing tokens at the certs endpoint of the API. The
Authorization Server MAY present more than one key on this endpoint, with each key being an entry in an array.

All public keys must be presented using the text representation used by The Secure Shell (SSH) Public Key File Format
in [RFC 4716][RFC-4716]. Each public key presented will be one entry in the array provided by the certs endpoint.

Resource Servers SHOULD seek to fetch public keys from the Authorization Server at least once every hour, altering 
their retrieval time by a value betweek 0-60 seconds to avoid overloading the Authorization Server due to Resource 
Servers synchronising their retrieval time. If a Resource Server is unable to contact the Authorization Server, the 
Resource Server MUST implement a random back-off mechanism to avoid overloading the Authorization Server in the 
event of a system restart. Also if a Resource Server is unable to contact an Authorization Server, the Resource 
Server MAY assume currently held public keys remain valid until it is able to re-establish a connection to an 
Authorization Server.

Resource Servers SHOULD attempt to verify tokens against every public key presented at its Authorization Server's
certs endpoint, until the Resource Server finds a public key that verifies the token, or until no keys are left. If a
client fails to verify all public keys available, the client MUST reject the token.

## Changing Keys

When transitioning to a new public/private key pair used for signing tokens the Authorization Server SHOULD provide
both the old and new public key at the certs endpoint until all tokens that may be verified by the old public key
would have expired. However, if a private key is known to be compromised, the Authorization Server MUST remove it
from the certs endpoint immediately.

Authorization Servers SHOULD provide new public keys on the certs endpoint for at least 2 hours before issuing tokens
signed by the corresponding private key to allow time for clients to cache the new public key.

[RFC-4716]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4716 "The Secure Shell (SSH) Public Key File Format"

[RFC-6749]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749 "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework"
