# Registration

_(c) AMWA 2019, CC Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)_

## Client Registration

Clients MUST be registered with the Authorization Server before initiating the OAuth 2.0 protocol as per Section 2 
of [RFC 6749][RFC-6749]. The Authorization Server MUST NOT accept unregistered clients.

Authorization Servers SHOULD support a manual mechanism for registering clients (e.g an HTML web form) allowing the
client type and redirect URIs to be provided. Clients SHOULD support a mechanism for providing the information 
required for OAuth 2.0 registration (e.g a web page containing the required details).

Clients operating with a client secret SHOULD support using HTTP Basic Authentication, as per Section 2 of [RFC
2617][RFC-2617], to authenticate with the Authorization Server in the manner
described in Section 2.3.1 of [RFC 6749][RFC-6749]. Authorization Servers SHOULD provide support for such
registrations.

AMWA NMOS Specifications MAY specify additional registration parameters where they require them. Where clients and
Authorization Servers that support OAuth 2.0 are used with these
specifications they SHALL use these parameters in all OAuth 2.0 registration mechanisms they support.

Clients and Authorization Servers are RECOMMENDED to provide for the OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol
[RFC 7591][RFC-7591] to allow dynamic registration of clients to the Authorization Server to
allow for zero-configuration setup. 

## Dynamic Client Authentication

In order to prevent any device from registering as an OAuth 2.0 client with the Authorization Server, a device SHOULD authenticate with the Authorization Server before being allowed to register and be administered with client credentials. The Authorization Server MUST NOT register an unauthenticated device.

The means by which authentication is established is beyond the scope of this specification but may include:
- A valid TLS certficate and successful HTTPS handshake
- A valid Client TLS certificate
- Operator Approval via a Web GUI
- Logging in using a Single-Sign-On (SSO) system
- An initial JWT as suggested in Section 3 of [RFC 7591][RFC-7591]

Authorization Servers supporting dynamic client registration SHOULD provide some means of rate-limiting to prevent a DDOS attack on the registration endpoint.


[RFC-2617]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2617 "HTTP Authentication: Basic and Digest Access Authentication"

[RFC-6749]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749 "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework"

[RFC-7591]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7591 "OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol"
