## Tokens

### Authorization Server Response

Successful authorization requests shall be serviced by the Authorization Server as defined in
[RFC 6749][RFC-6749] Section 5.1.
Additionally the `expires_in` and `refresh_token` fields MUST be included in the response.

Unsuccessful authorization responses should be handled as per Section 5.2 of [RFC 6749][RFC-6749].

### Access Tokens

The access token type returned MUST be of the `Bearer_token` type specified in [RFC 6750][RFC-6750].

The access token MUST be a JSON Web Signature (JWS) as defined by [RFC 7515][RFC-7515].
JSON Web Algorithms (JWA) MUST NOT be used.

The JWS MUST be signed with `RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 using SHA-512`, meaning the value of the `alg` field in the
token's JOSE (JSON Object Signing and Encryption) header (see [RFC 7515][RFC-7515]) MUST be set to `RS512`
as defined in [RFC 7518][RFC-7518]. An example JOSE header would be:

```json
{
  "typ": "JWT",
  "alg": "RS512"
}
```

#### Registered Claims

Registered claims are defined in the authorization JSON Web Token specification in [RFC 7519][RFC-7519], but their specific usage is left to the application. NMOS API Clients and Servers implementing this BCP MUST employ the restrictions on claims outlined below, in addition to implementing tokens as specified in [RFC 7519][RFC-7519].

##### iss
_Identifies principal that issued the JWT_

The `iss` (issuer) claim MUST be included in the token. The claim MUST contain the DNS
name and port of the Authorization Server accessible to the audience of the token.
The contents of this claim MUST match one entry in the common name field or alternate
names fields in all TLS certificates used by the Authorization Server for securing the authorization
API, in order to allow the verifier of the token to fetch the public key of the Authorization Server.

##### sub
_Identifies the subject of the JWT_

The `sub` (subject) claim MUST be included in the token. This claim MUST contain a unique identifier assigned to the end-user by the user authorization system. For example, this may be a username in a Single Sign-On (SSO) system, or the email address of the user.

For the authorization grant, the subject typically identifies the authorized accessor for which the access token is being requested in line with [RFC 7523][RFC-7523].

##### aud
_Identifies the recipients of the JWT_

The `aud` (audience) claim MAY be included in the token, but MUST be included where an AMWA NMOS
Specification with which the token is to be used requires it.

AMWA NMOS APIs are free to specify their own audience claims, but in the absence of specification resource
servers SHOULD assume that the audience claim contains the fully resolved domain name of the intended
recipient. If the `aud` claim is present and does not match the fully resolved domain name of the resource
server, the Resource Server MUST reject the token.

##### exp
_Expiration time of the token_

The `exp` (expiration) claim MUST be included in the token. This is defined in [RFC 7519][RFC-7519] as being a JSON
NumericDate field, which uses the UTC epoch. This is in contrast to the TAI epoch used elsewhere
within the NMOS APIs, so implementers should take care to ensure they are using the correct
epoch.
API implementations MUST reject a token where the `exp` claim value is less than the current UTC
time.

##### iat
_Token issued at time_

The `iat` (issued at) claim MAY be included in the token. As with the `exp` claim this claim uses UTC. API
implementations MUST reject a token where the `iat` claim is greater than the current UTC time.
Authorization Servers SHOULD NOT issue a token with an `iat` claim that is significantly greater or
less than the UTC time at which the token is issued.

#### Private Claims

[RFC 7519][RFC-7519] allows for "private claims". The following claim is used to identify the API
specification a given token is used for.

##### x-nmos-api
_Contains information particular to the NMOS API the token is intended for_

The `x-nmos-api` claim MUST be included in the token. The value of the claim is a JSON object, the
contents of which are defined by AMWA specifications.
The only entry in this object required by this specification is the "name" field. This should be the
identifier of the AMWA specification the token is to be used for in lower case. For example the IS-04
minimal claim is as follows:

```json
"x-nmos-api": {
  "name": "is-04"
}
```
In addition, specifications MAY require a `version` field be included, to indicate which version of the API
the token may be used with. This is to allow the Authorization Server to return an Authorization Token compatible
with the requirements for a particular version of the API.
This field MUST contain a JSON array. Each element of the array MUST be a version number of the API
(as a string formatted as v<#MAJOR>.<#MINOR>) with which the token may be used.

```json
"x-nmos-api": {
  "name": "is-04",
  "version": ["v1.0","v1.1","v1.2"]
}
```

In addition individual AMWA specifications MAY also specify additional entries in the object.
For example, IS-04 could define an entry "node-read", which may be either `true` or `false`.
An example of the resulting `x-nmos-api` claim  is shown below.

```json
"x-nmos-api": {
  "name": "is-04",
  "version": ["v1.0","v1.1","v1.2"],
  "node-read": true
}
```

Authorization Servers MAY only have support for certain NMOS API specifications, and MAY only
support certain versions of such APIs.

#### Size Considerations

While [RFC 7519][RFC-7519] does not prescribe a maximum size for an OAuth 2.0 JSON
Web Token, it should be noted that these tokens are typically used within an HTTP header.
While HTTP does not define a header size limit, 8KByte is a common limitation in HTTP
server implementations.
Specification writers should be mindful of this when designing API claims, and ensure that enough space is
available in the header for both the token and all other HTTP headers.

#### Example Authorization Token Claim Set

```json
{
  "iss": "https://auth.example.com",
  "sub": "username@example.com",
  "aud": "https://node.example.com",
  "iat": "1548779460",
  "exp": "1548783060",
  "x-nmos-api": {
    "name": "is-04",
    "node-read": true
  }
}
```

### Token Lifetime and Refresh

A given token for an NMOS API may be used on more than one Node or Registry instance.
If one of these Nodes or Registries is compromised, it is possible for that entity to "capture" that token,
and use it itself maliciously.
While the precise duration of token validity should be left to implementers and administrators based on the
risk profile, these tokens SHOULD ideally be set to be valid for no more than one hour.

However, if tokens are too short-lived, the number of refresh requests to the Authorization Server for new
tokens starts to become a significant overhead, and any latency involved in using a token may cause it to
become invalid during transit. As such it is RECOMMENDED that tokens be valid for at least 30 seconds.
Clients SHOULD ensure tokens are refreshed sufficiently in advance of their expiry.
While the exact time will depend on the implementation of the client and Authorization Server, it is
RECOMMENDED to attempt a refresh at least 15 seconds before expiry
(i.e the half-life of the shortest-lived token possible).

Authorization Servers MUST issue refresh tokens in the Bearer token returned after the completion of an
authentication flow. Refresh tokens MAY be valid indefinitely or MAY be time-limited.

[RFC-6749]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749 "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework"

[RFC-6750]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6750 "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token Usage"

[RFC-7515]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7515 "JSON Web Signature (JWS)"

[RFC-7518]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7518 "JSON Web Algorithms (JWA)"

[RFC-7519]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7519 "JSON Web Token (JWT)"

[RFC-7523]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7523 "JSON Web Token (JWT) Profile"
