# Tokens

_(c) AMWA 2019, CC Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)_

## Access Tokens

The access token type returned MUST be of the `Bearer_token` type specified in [RFC 6750][RFC-6750].

The access token MUST be a JSON Web Signature (JWS) as defined by [RFC 7515][RFC-7515].
JSON Web Algorithms (JWA) MUST NOT be used.

The JWS MUST be signed with `RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 using SHA-512`, meaning the value of the `alg` field
in the token's JOSE (JSON Object Signing and Encryption) header (see [RFC 7515][RFC-7515]) MUST be
set to `RS512` as defined in [RFC 7518][RFC-7518]. An example JOSE header would be:

```json
{
  "typ": "JWT",
  "alg": "RS512"
}
```

### Registered Claims

Registered claims are defined in the authorization JSON Web Token specification in [RFC
7519][RFC-7519], but their specific usage is left to the application. NMOS API Clients and Servers
implementing this BCP MUST employ the restrictions on claims outlined below, in addition to
implementing tokens as specified in [RFC 7519][RFC-7519].

#### iss
_Identifies principal that issued the JWT_

The `iss` (issuer) claim MUST be included in the token. The claim MUST contain the DNS
name and port of the Authorization Server accessible to the audience of the token.
The contents of this claim MUST match one entry in the common name field or alternate
names fields in all TLS certificates used by the Authorization Server for securing the authorization
API, in order to allow the verifier of the token to fetch the public key of the Authorization Server.

#### sub
_Identifies the subject of the JWT_

The `sub` (subject) claim MUST be included in the token. This claim MUST contain a unique identifier
assigned to the end-user by the user authorization system. For example, this may be a username in a
Single Sign-On (SSO) system, or the email address of the user.

For the authorization code grant, the subject typically identifies the authorized accessor for which the
access token is being requested in line with [RFC 7523][RFC-7523].

#### aud
_Identifies the recipients of the JWT_

The `aud` (audience) claim MAY be included in the token, but MUST be included where an AMWA NMOS
Specification with which the token is to be used requires it.

AMWA NMOS APIs are free to specify their own audience claims, but in the absence of specification
resource servers SHOULD assume that the audience claim contains the fully resolved domain name of the
intended recipient, or a domain name containing wild-card characters in order to target a subset of devices on a
network. Such wild-carding of domain names is documented in [RFC 4592][RFC-4592].

If the `aud` claim is present and does not match the fully resolved domain name
of the resource server, the Resource Server MUST reject the token.

#### exp
_Expiration time of the token_

The `exp` (expiration) claim MUST be included in the token. This is defined in [RFC 7519][RFC-7519] as being a JSON
NumericDate field, which uses the UTC epoch. This is in contrast to the TAI epoch used elsewhere
within the NMOS APIs, so implementers should take care to ensure they are using the correct
epoch.

API implementations MUST reject a token where the `exp` claim value is less than the current UTC
time.

#### iat
_Token issued at time_

The `iat` (issued at) claim MAY be included in the token. As with the `exp` claim this claim uses
UTC. API implementations MUST reject a token where the `iat` claim is greater than the current UTC
time. Authorization Servers SHOULD NOT issue a token with an `iat` claim that is less than the UTC
time at which the token is issued.

### Private Claims

[RFC 7519][RFC-7519] allows for "private claims". The following claim is used to identify the API
specification a given token is used for.

#### x-nmos-api
_Contains information particular to the NMOS API the token is intended for_

The `x-nmos-api` claim MUST be included in the token. The value of the claim is a JSON object, the contents of
which are `key:value` pairs, with the `keys` identifying an individual AMWA NMOS API using the identifier found
in the DNS-SD advertisement, and the `value` indicating access permissions for that API. An empty `x-nmos-api`
claim MUST indicate no access to any of the APIs. A missing API key MUST indicate no access to that specific API.

```json
"x-nmos-api": {
  "register": {},
  "connection": {}
}
```

In addition, a set of universal `key:value` pairs MAY be included for each API, with the `keys` indicating the type
of access to the API and the `value` indicating individual paths that are permitted to be accessed in such a way.
Wild-carding is permitted in the path specifiers. Individual AMWA specifications MAY also specify additional
key:value pairs specific to the API. General access keys include:
  - **write** - ability to insert a new resource. This usually takes the form of PUT or POST HTTP request verbs.
  - **read** - ability to retrieve the resource. This usually takes the form of GET and HEAD HTTP request verbs.
  - **update** - ability to change an existing resource. This usually takes the form of PATCH HTTP request verbs.
  - **delete** - ability to remove an existing resource. This usually takes the form of the DELETE HTTP request
  verbs.

An example of a `x-nmos-api` claim is shown below.

```json
"x-nmos-api": {
  "register": {
    "read": ["node.*", "query.*"],
    "write": ["query.subscriptions", "registration.*"]
  },
  "connection": {
    "update": {
      "resources": ["senders.2d2ed05a-4b2e-4cc9-8e8c-cc62a27db97a"]
    }
  }
}
```

Authorization Servers MAY only have support for certain NMOS API specifications, and MAY only
support certain versions of such APIs.

### Size Considerations

While [RFC 7519][RFC-7519] does not prescribe a maximum size for an OAuth 2.0 JSON
Web Token, it should be noted that these tokens are typically used within an HTTP header.
While HTTP does not define a header size limit, 8KByte is a common limitation in HTTP
server implementations.
Specification writers should be mindful of this when designing API claims, and ensure that enough
space is available in the header for both the token and all other HTTP headers.

### Example Access Token Claim Set

```json
{
  "iss": "https://auth.example.com",
  "sub": "username@example.com",
  "aud": "https://node-*.example.com",
  "iat": "1548779460",
  "exp": "1548783060",
  "x-nmos-api": {
    "register": {
      "read": ["node.*", "query.*"],
      "write": ["query.subscriptions", "registration.*"]
    },
    "connection": {
      "update": {
        "resources": ["senders.2d2ed05a-4b2e-4cc9-8e8c-cc62a27db97a"]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Token Lifetime and Refresh

A given token for an NMOS API may be used on more than one Node or Registry instance.
If one of these Nodes or Registries is compromised, it is possible for that entity to "capture" that
token, and use it itself maliciously. While the precise duration of token validity should be left to
implementers and administrators based on the risk profile, these tokens SHOULD ideally be set to be
valid for no more than one hour.

However, if tokens are too short-lived, the number of refresh requests to the Authorization Server
for new tokens starts to become a significant overhead, and any latency involved in using a token may
cause it to become invalid during transit. As such it is RECOMMENDED that tokens be valid for at
least 30 seconds.

Clients SHOULD ensure tokens are refreshed sufficiently in advance of their expiry.
While the exact time will depend on the implementation of the client and Authorization Server, it is
RECOMMENDED to attempt a refresh at least 15 seconds before expiry
(i.e the half-life of the shortest-lived token possible).


## Refresh Tokens

Authorization Servers MUST issue refresh tokens in the Bearer token returned after the completion of
an authentication flow. Refresh tokens MAY be valid indefinitely or MAY be time-limited.

A refresh token is a string representing the authorization granted to the client by the resource owner
in line with Section 1.5 of [RFC 6749][RFC-6749].

[RFC-4592]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4592 "The Role of Wildcards in the Domain Name System"

[RFC-6749]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749 "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework"

[RFC-6750]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6750 "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token Usage"

[RFC-7515]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7515 "JSON Web Signature (JWS)"

[RFC-7518]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7518 "JSON Web Algorithms (JWA)"

[RFC-7519]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7519 "JSON Web Token (JWT)"

[RFC-7523]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7523 "JSON Web Token (JWT) Profile"
