# Behaviour: Access Tokens

_(c) AMWA 2019, CC Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)_

The access token type returned MUST be of the `Bearer_token` type specified in [RFC 6750][RFC-6750].

The access token MUST be a JSON Web Signature (JWS) as defined by [RFC 7515][RFC-7515]. JSON Web Algorithms (JWA) MUST
NOT be used.

The JWS MUST be signed with `RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 using SHA-512`, meaning the value of the `alg` field in the token's JOSE
(JSON Object Signing and Encryption) header (see [RFC 7515][RFC-7515]) MUST be set to `RS512` as defined in
[RFC 7518][RFC-7518]. An example JOSE header would be:

```json
{
  "typ": "JWT",
  "alg": "RS512"
}
```

## Registered Claims

Registered claims are defined in the authorization JSON Web Token specification in [RFC 7519][RFC-7519], but their
specific usage is left to the application. NMOS API Clients and Servers implementing this specification MUST employ the
restrictions on claims outlined below, in addition to implementing tokens as specified in [RFC 7519][RFC-7519].

### iss
_Identifies principal that issued the JWT_

The `iss` (issuer) claim MUST be included in the token. The claim MUST contain the DNS name and port of the
Authorization Server accessible to the audience of the token. The contents of this claim MUST match one entry in the
common name field or alternate names fields in all TLS certificates used by the Authorization Server for securing the
authorization API, in order to allow the verifier of the token to fetch the public key of the Authorization Server.

### sub
_Identifies the subject of the JWT_

The `sub` (subject) claim MUST be included in the token. This claim MUST contain a unique identifier assigned to the
end-user by the user authorization system. For example, this may be a username in a Single Sign-On (SSO) system, or the
email address of the user.

For the authorization code grant, the subject typically identifies the authorized accessor for which the access token
is being requested.

### aud
_Identifies the recipients of the JWT_

The `aud` (audience) claim MUST be included in the token. This claim MUST be a JSON array containing the fully resolved
domain names of the intended recipients, or a domain name containing wild-card characters in order to target a subset
of devices on a network. Such wild-carding of domain names is documented in [RFC 4592][RFC-4592].

If the `aud` claim is present and does not match the fully resolved domain name of the resource server, the Resource
Server MUST reject the token.

### exp
_Expiration time of the token_

The `exp` (expiration) claim MUST be included in the token. This is defined in [RFC 7519][RFC-7519] as being a JSON
NumericDate field, which uses the UTC epoch. This is in contrast to the TAI epoch used elsewhere within the NMOS APIs,
so implementers should take care to ensure they are using the correct epoch.

API implementations MUST reject a token where the `exp` claim value is less than the current UTC time. Refer to the
[Token Lifetime](#token-lifetime) Section for guidance on setting this value.

### iat
_Token issued at time_

The `iat` (issued at) claim MAY be included in the token. As with the `exp` claim this claim uses UTC. API
implementations MUST reject a token where the `iat` claim is greater than the current UTC time. Authorization Servers
SHALL issue a token with an `iat` claim that is equal to the UTC time at which the token is issued.

### client_id
_Client ID that requested the token_

The `client_id` claim MUST be included in the token, as per Section 2.2 of the draft RFC
[Profile for OAuth 2.0 Access Tokens][oauth-access-token-jwt]. This claim corresponds with the client identifier of the
OAuth 2.0 client that requested the token. The value of this claim MUST exactly match the full client identifier to
which the token was granted.

### scope
_List of scopes associated with the token_

The `scope` claim SHOULD be included in the token, if the authorization request included a scope parameter, as per
Section 2.2.2 of the draft RFC [Profile for OAuth 2.0 Access Tokens][oauth-access-token-jwt]. The value of the "scope"
claim is a JSON string containing a space-separated list of scopes associated with the token, in the format described
in Section 3.3 of [RFC6749][RFC-6749].

The value of each scope corresponds to the namespace identifier for a given NMOS
API (e.g. "registration", "query", etc.) to which the user is requesting access and determines how the private
`x-nmos-api` claim, detailed below, is populated.

## Private Claims

[RFC 7519][RFC-7519] allows for "private claims". The following claim is used to identify the API specification a given
token is used for.

### x-nmos-api
_Contains information particular to the NMOS API the token is intended for_

The `x-nmos-api` claim MUST be included in the token. The value of the claim is a JSON object, the contents of which
are `key:value` pairs, with the `key` identifying an individual AMWA NMOS API using the namespace identifier found in
the URL for that given API (e.g. "registration", "query", etc.), and the `value` being a JSON object indicating access
permissions for that API. An empty `x-nmos-api` object MUST indicate no access to any of the APIs. A missing API key
MUST indicate no access to that specific API.

#### The Access Permissions Object
The value of each NMOS API key is the access permissions object for the given user for that specific API. The access
permission object consists of `key:value` pairs in which the `key` denotes a specific permission. General permissions
include:
*   **write** - ability to insert a new, or edit an existing, resource. This takes the form of *POST*, *PUT*,
    *PATCH* and *DELETE* HTTP request verbs.
*   **read** - ability to retrieve the resource. This takes the form of *GET*, *OPTIONS* and *HEAD* HTTP request
    verbs.

If a permission has not been granted to a specific user, the permission key MUST be omitted, to minimise the
token size. If no permissions are given for a specific API, the API key MUST be removed from the `x-nmos-api` claim,
to ensure token size is minimised.

If a permission of "write" is given in the access permission object, and the intention is that the given user
also has "read" access to the specific API, a permission key of "read" MUST also be present in the access permissions
object.

Individual AMWA specifications MAY specify additional permissions keys specific to the individual API. These MUST be
registered in the [AMWA NMOS Parameter Registers][AMWA NMOS Parameter Registers]. It is recommended that new permissions keys are only introduced
alongside a new version of a given AMWA NMOS API in order to minimise the risk of incompatibility.

The `value` corresponding to each permission key is a JSON array containing URL path specifiers that the user is
permitted to perform the specific request against. Wildcards are permitted in the path specifiers. The means by which
wildcards may be used for pattern matching SHALL align with Section 2.13 of the [POSIX Standard][POSIX Standard]. It is RECOMMENDED
that wildcards are used in place of URL parameters (such as specifying resource UUID's) to minimise token size.
Specific URL parameters MAY be used in path specifiers if defining access to a small number of resources (such as
a single node or device.)

For NMOS API URL's that follow the standard pattern of:

`<api_proto>://<hostname>:<port>/x-nmos/<api type>/<api version>/`

all path specifiers MUST start _after_ the API version and its trailing slash. For example, authorizing a user to read
all _single resources_ and modify the configuration of all  _single senders_ at a Connection Management interface would
result in an access permissions object of:

```JSON
"connection": {
  "read": ["single/*"],
  "write": ["single/senders/*"]
}
```

#### Example `x-nmos-api` Claim
An example of a `x-nmos-api` claim is shown below. This would permit querying an IS-04 Registry, and modifying
_single_ connections via an IS-05 connection management interface, but would not permit the user to register a resource
with an IS-04 Registry.

```json
"x-nmos-api": {
  "registration": {
    "read": ["*"]
  },
  "query": {
    "read": ["*"],
    "write": ["subscriptions/*"]
  },
  "connection": {
    "read": ["*"],
    "write": ["single/*"]
  }
}
```

Authorization Servers MAY only have support for certain NMOS API specifications, and MAY only support certain versions
of such APIs.

## Size Considerations

While [RFC 7519][RFC-7519] does not prescribe a maximum size for an OAuth 2.0 JSON Web Token, it should be noted that
these tokens are typically used within an HTTP header. While HTTP does not define a header size limit, 8KByte is a
common limitation in HTTP server implementations. Specification writers should be mindful of this when designing API
claims, and ensure that enough space is available in the header for both the token and all other HTTP headers.

## Example Access Token Claim Set

```json
{
  "iss": "https://auth.example.com",
  "sub": "username@example.com",
  "aud": ["https://node-*.example.com"],
  "iat": 1548779460,
  "exp": 1548783060,
  "scope": "registration query connection",
  "client_id": "hopy0dNRPNTiGJDqPfqYwGmw",
  "x-nmos-api": {
    "registration": {
      "read": ["*"],
    },
    "query": {
      "read": ["*"],
      "write": ["subscriptions/*"]
    },
    "connection": {
      "read": ["*"],
      "write": ["single/*"]
    }
  }
}
```

## Access Token Lifetime

A given access token for an NMOS API may be used on more than one Node or Registry instance. If one of these Nodes or
Registries is compromised, it is possible for that entity to re-use it itself maliciously. While
the precise duration of token validity should be left to implementers and administrators based on the risk profile,
these tokens SHOULD be valid for no more than one hour.

However, if access tokens are too short-lived, the number of refresh requests to the Authorization Server for new
tokens starts to become a significant overhead, and any latency involved in using a token may cause it to become
invalid during transit. As such it is RECOMMENDED that tokens be valid for at least 30 seconds.


[RFC-4592]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4592 "The Role of Wildcards in the Domain Name System"

[RFC-6749]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749 "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework"

[RFC-6750]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6750 "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token Usage"

[RFC-7515]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7515 "JSON Web Signature (JWS)"

[RFC-7518]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7518 "JSON Web Algorithms (JWA)"

[RFC-7519]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7519 "JSON Web Token (JWT)"

[oauth-access-token-jwt]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-oauth-access-token-jwt/ "JSON Web Token Profile for OAuth 2.0 Access Tokens"

[AMWA NMOS Parameter Registers]: https://github.com/AMWA-TV/nmos-parameter-registers

[POSIX Standard]: https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/utilities/V3_chap02.html "Shell Command Language"
