# Resource Servers

_(c) AMWA 2019, CC Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)_

## Public keys

Resource Servers SHOULD seek to fetch public keys from the Authorization Server at least once every hour, altering
their retrieval time by a value between 0-60 seconds to avoid overloading the Authorization Server due to Resource
Servers synchronising their retrieval time.

If a Resource Server is unable to contact the Authorization Server, the Resource Server MUST implement a random
back-off mechanism to avoid overloading the Authorization Server in the event of a system restart. Also if a
Resource Server is unable to contact an Authorization Server, the Resource Server MAY assume currently held public
keys remain valid until it is able to re-establish a connection to an Authorization Server.

Resource Servers SHOULD attempt to verify tokens against every public key presented at its Authorization Server's
`/certs` endpoint, until the Resource Server finds a public key that verifies the token, or until no keys are left.
If the Resource Server fails to verify all public keys available, it MUST reject the token.

## Accessing Protected Resources

When accessing protected resources clients MUST include the authorization token in the request using the Authorization
Request Header Field method described in Section 2.1 of [RFC 6750][RFC-6750]. Clients MUST NOT use any of the other
methods specified in Section 2.0 of [RFC 6750][RFC-6750] when making requests via HTTP/S.

When a protected resources receives a token it MUST validate the claims of the token. If a token is invalid the resource server 
MUST reject the request with the appropriate HTTP error code as defined by [RFC 6750][RFC-6750].

### Operation with WebSockets

Where OAuth 2.0 is to be used with WebSockets clients SHALL provide the access token
in the HTTP GET request that initiates the Websocket handshake defined in
[RFC 6455][RFC-6455] in the same manner as a normal HTTP request as described in
[Accessing Protected Resources](#accessing-protected-resources).

The Resource Server SHALL validate such tokens in the same manner as it would for a normal
protected HTTP resources using the HTTP Authorization Request Header.

Further to this, due to limitations in the native JavaScript WebSocket API, clients MAY
pass the OAuth 2.0 access token in the query parameters of the request URL during the handshake,
using the `access_token` key, as described in [RFC 6750](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6750#section-2.3).
This is only for situations in which it is not feasible to pass the token in the HTTP Authorization Header.

```
https://www.example.com/ws?access_token=mF_9.B5f-4.1JqM
```

The Resource Server MUST support the parsing of access tokens in both the Authorization
HTTP Header and the query parameter. The Resource Server SHALL NOT upgrade the connection to a WebSocket if the token
is deemed invalid.

## Validation of Access Token

Resource Servers MUST validate the signature and Header of the JWT token in line with Section 5 of [RFC 7515][RFC-7515]. The public key is found at the `/certs` endpoint of the Authorization Server that issued the token. This
Server can be identified using the `iss` claim. The value of the claims within the payload of the
JWT must also be validated, in line with the [Tokens](./4.3.%20Behaviour%20-%20Tokens.md) page in this directory.
The request MUST be rejected if:
- the `iat` claim is greater than the current UTC time.
- the `exp` claim is less than the current UTC time.
- the Resource Server does not identify itself with the `aud` claim
- the request is not permitted by the value of the `x-nmos-api` claim, in line with the [Tokens](./4.3.%20Behaviour%20-%20Tokens.md) page.


[RFC-6455]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6455 "The WebSocket Protocol"

[RFC-6750]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6750 "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token Usage"

[RFC-7515]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7515 "JSON Web Signature (JWS)"
