# Behaviour: Resource Servers

_(c) AMWA 2019, CC Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-ND 4.0)_

## Public keys

Resource Servers SHOULD seek to fetch public keys from the Authorization Server at least once every hour, altering
their retrieval time by a value between 0-60 seconds to avoid overloading the Authorization Server due to Resource
Servers synchronising their retrieval time.

If a Resource Server is unable to contact the Authorization Server, the Resource Server MUST implement a random
back-off mechanism to avoid overloading the Authorization Server in the event of a system restart. Also if a
Resource Server is unable to contact an Authorization Server, the Resource Server MAY assume currently held public
keys remain valid until it is able to re-establish a connection to an Authorization Server.

Resource Servers SHOULD attempt to verify tokens against all keys presented at the Authorization Server's public key
endpoint. All valid JWK's SHOULD be tried until the token is verified or until no keys are left.

If the Resource Server fails to verify all public keys available, it MUST reject the token.

## Accessing Protected Resources

Access tokens are passed to protected endpoints via the HTTP Authorization Request Header field, as per Section 2 of
[RFC 6750][RFC-6750].

When a protected resource receives a token it MUST validate the signature and claims of the token.

If a protected resource request does not include authentication credentials or does not contain an access token
that enables access to the protected resource, the resource server MUST reject the request with the appropriate
HTTP error code and include the HTTP `WWW-Authenticate` response header field using the auth-scheme value "Bearer",
as per Section 3 of [RFC 6750][RFC-6750].

For example:
*   A request without authentication or one including an expired access token will receive a 401 (Unauthorized) response.
*   A request that is not permitted by the values of the `x-nmos-*` claims, as per the
    [Access Tokens](4.4.%20Behaviour%20-%20Access%20Tokens.md) section, will receive a 403 (Forbidden) response.

### Operation with WebSocket

Where OAuth 2.0 is to be used with WebSocket clients SHALL provide the access token in the HTTP GET request that
initiates the Websocket handshake defined in [RFC 6455][RFC-6455] in the same manner as a normal HTTP request as
described in [Accessing Protected Resources](#accessing-protected-resources).

The Resource Server SHALL validate such tokens in the same manner as it would for a normal protected HTTP resources
using the HTTP Authorization Request Header.

Further to this, due to limitations in the native JavaScript WebSocket API, clients MAY pass the OAuth 2.0 access token
in the query parameters of the request URL during the handshake, using the `access_token` key, as described in
[RFC 6750][RFC-6750]. This is only for situations in which it is not feasible to pass the token in the HTTP
Authorization Header.

```
https://www.example.com/ws?access_token=mF_9.B5f-4.1JqM
```

The Resource Server MUST support the parsing of access tokens in both the Authorization HTTP Header and the query
parameter. The Resource Server SHALL NOT upgrade the connection to a WebSocket if the token is deemed invalid.

## Validation of Access Token

Resource Servers MUST validate the signature and Header of the JWT token in line with Section 5 of [RFC 7515][RFC-7515].
The certificate containing the public key for verification is found at the public key endpoint of the Authorization
Server that issued the token. This server is identified using the issuer (`iss`) claim within the token.

The value of the claims within the payload of the JWT must also be validated, in line with the
[Tokens](4.4.%20Behaviour%20-%20Access%20Tokens.md) section. The request MUST be rejected if:
*   the `iat` claim is greater than the current UTC time.
*   the `exp` claim is less than the current UTC time.
*   the Resource Server does not identify itself with the `aud` claim

### Path Validation

Resource Servers MUST verify that the URL path component requested matches one which is permitted by the token, ignoring any URL query parameters. The
following rules MUST be followed when confirming a match.

| Path | Requirements |
| ---- | ------------ |
| `/`  | Always allow 'read' permission with no authorization checks. This includes implicit permission to this path with or without a trailing slash |
| `/x-nmos` | Always allow 'read' permission with no authorization checks. This includes implicit permission to this path with or without a trailing slash |
| `/x-nmos/<api name>` | The token MUST include either an `x-nmos-*` claim matching the API name, a `scope` matching the API name or both in order to obtain 'read' permission. This includes implicit permission to this path with or without a trailing slash |
| `/x-nmos/<api name>/<api version>` | The token MUST include either an `x-nmos-*` claim matching the API name, a `scope` matching the API name or both in order to obtain 'read' permission. This includes implicit permission to this path with or without a trailing slash |
| `/x-nmos/<api name>/<api version>/<path>` | The token MUST include an `x-nmos-*` claim matching the API name and the path, in line with the method outlined in [Tokens](4.4.%20Behaviour%20-%20Access%20Tokens.md) |

## Interaction with other NMOS APIs

Any further token validation requirements based on the specific NMOS API being accessed is highlighted in [BCP-003-02][BCP-003-02].

## Audit Requirements

Resource Servers MUST maintain a log of each request which they authorize or reject. Logs MUST be stored alongside an
accurate timestamp and details of the token passed to them in the request. Logs MUST NOT contain sensitive information
such as secrets. Logs SHOULD be stored securely and maintained for at least one month.


[RFC-6455]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6455 "The WebSocket Protocol"

[RFC-6750]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6750 "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token Usage"

[RFC-7515]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7515 "JSON Web Signature (JWS)"

[BCP-003-02]: https://amwa-tv.github.io/nmos-authorization-practice/branches/v1.0-dev/docs/1.0._Authorization_Practice.html "Authorization in NMOS Systems"
